So there is another API known
as WebHID that is not available
today on Safari,
that's why it's light green.
It can work on Chromium based browser.
In this case HID is
Human Interface Device.
You can use this to access device
connected also through USB or Bluetooth,
but they are using a standard
protocol on hardware known as HID.
So it's a device to communicate
with the user input or
output, they can be both,
that it's not standard, okay?
So in this case, developers,
so we can control
devices and applications, but low level.
In this case, users must grant
permission through a browser dialog.
So in this case is different, okay?
It's not like you have access immediately,
no,
the user must granted you permission
to use that specific device.
And this is also useful for
non-standard input devices,
not just the game pad with superpowers or
with asteroids,
they can be something really weird or
really different.
I have some examples in a second.
And it's a low-level API.
That means that you have a lot of power,
but also you have a lot of work.
You need to understand how to talk to that
particular device, you need the manual or
you need to somehow get the information on
how, what,
which instructions do you need to
send to that particular device.
So examples of devices you can talk
to with stream decks from Elgato.
So for streamers, it's pretty common
these days to have these devices.
I'm talking about that one.
In that case,
you can send images to each button.
You can receive clicks from the buttons.
And also there is a display here,
And analog controls.
So with web human interface devices API,
you can actually talk to that device or
with a pedal for cooking,
that's good, right?
So with your feet you can touch,
it depends on how you are touching or
how many times you can
do the several things.
You can use game pads
that are not standard.
You can talk to a mouse with
a screen if you want to.
I'm not sure who wants to use
a mouse with a screen inside.
That's the, or
LED lights that you connect through USB.
That's an output device, not an input.
So, HID is not just for input.
So that's WebHID, but
it's a very low-level API.
This is how that works.
You await for navigation hid.getDevices.
In this case, the browser will render
a browser selection dialog where
the user will need to pick one,
and then you can show information.
Because it's a very low level, we're not
gonna waste too much time because I don't
know if you're going to use that,
but we have a couple of examples.
In the examples we have WebHID demo and
a demo for DualShock4,
that is exactly this gamepad.
So, with this one, with the first
one I can click Connect Device and
you will see the dialog.
You must run these on Google Chrome or
Microsoft Edge.
So in the dialog it says,
which device do you want to use?
And in this case it will show you
more information about the device.
And the other one, Dualshock4,
I'm going to connect the controller.
And you can see that now my controller
appears there, wireless controller,
connect.
And now I have full
control of the LCD color.
I'm not sure if you can get that on
the camera, but it's changing the colors.
The rumble, You will hear that
on the microphone probably.
The strongness, can you hear it?
It's actually rumbling the inside.
And also here of course you can also
get all the information on the buttons,
everything.
But you can get that from
the gamepad API as well.
But here you can touch with
a device that's a low level and
do whatever you want, okay?
So that's cool.
And also it has accelerometer and
gyroscope.
And by the way, it's not just that, for
example, I have another example here.
This little guy that I have
here is a pointer, okay?
So yeah, it's a pretty cool pointer,
you can go forward, move forward, but
it also has accelerometer.
So I can also read that
as a WebHID device, and
know if I'm pointing, where I'm pointing.
So I can read everything from
the device using WebHID.